Welcome back.
How much did you hate me after doing this challenge.
Now this was specifically supposed to be hard and difficult and frustrating and most likely you're not
going to get it right the first time around.
This was done on purpose to illustrate a point.
What we're actually doing here.
Well you won't be asked to do in an interview.
But I wanted to show you how to think about things because later on I'll show you how it's actually
a lot simpler than thinking about each individual step and a function to calculate things.
There's not much math involved and this is as mathy as we're going to get in this course.
But again I just want to show you the nitty gritty details so that you can think about it and have a
nice foundation so that moving forward we can simplify things a lot better.
Now let's look at this function.
It's a fun challenge function that takes some sort of an input.
The very first thing is within this function when we run the fun challenge let's just say Well have
fun challenge and we run this function and the input doesn't really matter.
It could be an array could be an object for knowledge just keep things simple say it's an array of five.
Now where we run this function the first thing we're going to do is an assignment.
We're going to assign variable A as 10 now based on convention.
And this is why you won't encounter this in an interview because a lot of people interpret this differently.
Some people say that assignment you shouldn't count towards big-O.
And some people say that you should.
In our case just to simplify things let's count every single step and what the function is doing.
Let a 10 is just 0 of 1 because this is only running once when we run.
Fun challenge.
That's it.
It doesn't matter how big the input is.
This just runs once and then 50 plus three we're re-assigning A.
This once again is of one.
And then we get into a loop.
We know that with the loop it looks like we're looking at the length of the input and looping over depending
on whatever the input is.
In our case this is going to be an O of an Let's add that comment over here and this again is the input.
Remember that I can change just two inputs I can change just 2 X it doesn't really matter.
It just reflects how big the input is that's how long this for loops going to take.
And we know this by now that loops are linear time and then within here another function we don't know
what this function is but it's calling to another function outside of the fun challenge function.
This is also being called how many times.
Well it depends on how big our input is.
So once again it's of an.
What about this.
Let variable stranger equal to true began another random assignment here.
But this runs as many times as this loop happens if input was 5 this old run five times.
So again this would be an and then over here we have a plus plus which in javascript's simply means
a plus one.
So we're just incrementing the whatever the number is at this time.
So 53 will become 54 and then as we loop through it Ill keep increasing by 1 54 55 56.
This once again runs 0 of end times.
It depends how many times there Brunt's buy the input because again we're looping through.
And then finally another thing that some people don't count.
But just to keep it consistent every single step that we do return.
This runs just once every time fun challenge gets wrong.
The return statement only runs once.
All right.
So we have all these Big O notation.
And now we're starting to think about how a function runs and how efficient a function is.
If we actually calculate all of this if we total all this up we see that we have 1 2 3.
So we have three steps plus of one of an oven oven.
So that means we have an plus and plus And so that means that we are running the calculation.
And plus and plus and plus then which turns out to be four.
And so three plus four and is our Big O notation there it is like I said before when it comes to big.
Oh don't get too hung up on.
Did I get this right.
Because in an interview you're not going to need to know this but you are able to now think about how
a function runs more deeply than just simply writing the code.
As we progressed through the videos you're going to find out that this actually at the end of the day
gets simplified to just o of an and we're going to go through that and why that is.